Overall System Assessment Report

Date: 13 June 2026
System: Kali Linux
User: kali

Executive Summary

A comprehensive assessment of the Kali Linux system was conducted covering process monitoring, process management, system monitoring, service monitoring, shell scripting, security monitoring, and basic SOC analysis. The objective was to evaluate system health, identify potential security concerns, and understand administrative monitoring techniques.

System Health Analysis
The system is running Kali Linux 6.12.25-amd64 on a 64-bit architecture.
Total installed memory is 4.4 GiB, with 3.4 GiB available, indicating healthy memory utilization.
Swap memory of 953 MiB is configured and currently unused.
The primary filesystem (/dev/sda1) has 79 GB total capacity, with 34 GB used and 41 GB available, resulting in 46% disk utilization.
System uptime was recorded at 2 hours and 54 minutes, with a load average of 0.12, 0.10, and 0.03, indicating very low system load and stable performance.
Process Monitoring Findings
Process monitoring was performed using ps, ps aux, top, and htop.
The highest resource-consuming process observed had:
PID: 1094
CPU Usage: 3.7%
Memory Usage: 3.4%
No unusually high resource consumption was detected during the assessment.
Process Management Findings
A test process (sleep 300) was successfully created and identified using:
ps aux | grep sleep
The process was terminated successfully using:
kill PID

and

kill -9 PID
This demonstrated effective process identification and termination procedures.
Service Monitoring Findings

Critical services such as:

SSH Service
NetworkManager

were reviewed using systemctl status.

Services play a critical role in maintaining system functionality, networking, and user access. Any service failure could result in system instability, network disruption, or application downtime.

Security Monitoring Findings

Security monitoring was performed using:

netstat
ss
who
w
last

These tools provided visibility into:

Active network connections
Listening ports
Logged-in users
User activities
Historical login records

No evidence of unauthorized users, suspicious network activity, or unusual login patterns was identified during the assessment.

SOC Analysis

As part of the SOC investigation exercise:

Resource-heavy processes were identified using CPU and memory monitoring tools.
Suspicious processes were evaluated by reviewing:
Process details
Parent-child relationships
User ownership
Network connections
Before terminating any process, critical information such as PID, PPID, resource utilization, active connections, and user sessions would be collected to preserve evidence and avoid disrupting legitimate services.
Conclusion

The system is operating normally with healthy resource utilization, stable service availability, and no obvious indicators of compromise. Monitoring and administrative commands successfully demonstrated process analysis, service management, network monitoring, and basic incident response procedures. The assessment confirms that the system is stable, secure, and functioning within expected operational parameters.