Linux Task 01: Linux Environment Setup &
Essential Commands


Part A: Linux Installation & Verification



Part B: Basic Navigation Commands

1. pwd - It prints the present working directory i.e. the directory in which we are currently working or using.
2. ls - It lists all the contents i.e. files and directories present in the current working directory.
3. ls -la - It lists all the files and directories including hidden files or directories as well and gives us detailed information of each 		file and directory.
4. cd - It changes the current working directory to the other directory. Ex. cd dir_name 
5. clear - It clears the all the contents present on the terminal.
6. history - It keeps the track on the commands that we have executed in the terminal 
7. whoami - It prints the username associated with the current effective user ID. It tells you exactly which user account is executing 			commands in your current terminal session.
8. hostname - It is a built-in networking utility used to view or temporarily change a computer's network identification name.


Part C: Directory Management



Part D: File Management


1. Create files
	$ touch notes.txt   

2. Copy files
	$ cp report.txt CyberSecurity

3. Move files
	$ mv command.txt Linux/ 

4. Rename files
	$ mv command.txt command_linux.txt

5. Delete files
	$ rm command.txt


What each command do:

1. touch - it is used to create a file in the directory or in the system.

2. cp - it is used to copy the file or directory from one place to another place.

3. mv - it is used to move a file or directory from one place to another place.

4. rm - it is used to delete a files and directories from the system.



Part E: System Information Collection


Record:

1. Kernel Version : Kali 6.12.25-1kali1

2. Username : Kali

3. Current Directory : /home/kali/CyberSecurity_Lab/Linux

4. Current Date and Time : Wed Jun 10 08:30:41 AM EDT 2026

5. System Uptime :  08:30:44 up 41 min,  1 user,  load average: 0.24, 0.07, 0.02


Part F: Linux Research Activity

Research and explain:

1. What is Linux?
Ans: Linux is a free and open-source operating system kernel created by Linus Torvalds in 1991. An operating system manages computer hardware and software resources and provides services for computer programs. Because Linux is open source, users can view, modify, and distribute its source code.

2. Why is Linux important in Cyber Security?
Ans: Linux plays a crucial role in cyber security because:

Open Source: Security professionals can inspect and audit the source code.
Powerful Command Line: Enables efficient system administration and security testing.
Stability: Linux systems are reliable and less prone to crashes.
Security Features: Includes strong permission management and access controls.
Networking Tools: Provides advanced networking and monitoring capabilities.
Security Distributions: Specialized distributions such as Kali Linux come preloaded with penetration testing tools.

Many servers, cloud platforms, and security appliances run Linux, making it essential for cybersecurity professionals.

3. Difference between Linux and Windows.
Ans: 
Feature	Linux	Windows
Cost	Free and Open Source	Commercial and Licensed
Source Code	Available to everyone	Proprietary
Security	Generally more secure and customizable	More frequently targeted by malware
User Interface	Command Line and GUI available	Primarily GUI-based
Performance	Efficient on low-end hardware	Requires more system resources
Software Installation	Package managers (APT, YUM, etc.)	Executable installers (.exe, .msi)
Customization	Highly customizable	Limited customization
Usage	Servers, Security, Development	Personal and Business Computing

4. What is a Linux Distribution?
Ans: A Linux Distribution (Distro) is a complete operating system built around the Linux kernel along with system utilities, software packages, and graphical interfaces.

Examples of popular Linux distributions include:

Ubuntu
Debian
Fedora
Kali Linux
Linux Mint

Different distributions are designed for different purposes such as desktop use, servers, software development, or cybersecurity.

5. Why do Ethical Hackers prefer Linux-based operating systems?
Ans: Ethical hackers prefer Linux because:

Pre-installed Security Tools
Powerful Terminal
Open Source Environment
Better Networking Support
Automation
Stability and Performance
Industry Standard

